1	What is React?
React is a opensource javascript library used for UI development.

2	What are the major features of React?
JSX
components
virtual dom
uni-directional

3	What is JSX?
JSX is javascript XML used in react instead of HTML

4	What is the difference between Element and Component?

element is a part of Component
Component contains elements



5	How to create components in React?
npm i -g create-react-component
create-react-component Alert 

6	When to use a Class Component over a Function Component?
Class components are statefull components and functional components are stateless 

7	What are Pure Components?
pure component is not rendered

8	What is state in React?
used as a storage for same component

9	What are props in React?

used to pass values from parent to child component

10	What is the difference between state and props?
used as a storage for same component 
used to pass values from parent to child component

11	Why should we not update the state directly?
updating state directly leads to bugs

12	What is the purpose of callback function as an argument of setState()?
They work by preventing lifecycle methods from firing when props and state have not changed

13	What is the difference between HTML and React event handling?
HTML defines events and executed by javascript whereas 
React defines and handle events

14	How to bind methods or event handlers in JSX callbacks?

15	How to pass a parameter to an event handler or callback?
ex:- onClick={this.handleClick.bind(this, id)

16	What are synthetic events in React?
A synthetic event is a cross-browser wrapper around the browser's native event. It has the same interface as the browser's native event, including stopPropagation() and preventDefault() , except the events work identically across all browsers

17	What are inline conditional expressions?
 ternary if

18	What is "key" prop and what is the benefit of using it in arrays of elements?
To uniquely identify a record

19	What is the use of refs?
To access the DOM element

20	How to create refs?
React.createRef()

21	What are forward refs?
Ref forwarding is a technique for automatically passing a ref through a component to one of its children

22	Which is preferred option with in callback refs and findDOMNode()?
 It is preferred to use callback refs over findDOMNode()

23	Why are String Refs legacy?

The docs call the old string API "legacy" to make it clearer that the callback-based API is the preferred approach, as is discussed in this commit and in this PR which are the ones that actually put those statements to the documentation in the first place.


24	What is Virtual DOM?
Virtual representation of UI

25	How Virtual DOM works?
In virtual DOM ,react render only the element to be changed

26	What is the difference between Shadow DOM and Virtual DOM?
 Virtual DOM is creating a copy of the whole DOM object, and Shadow DOM creates small pieces of the DOM object 

27	What is React Fiber?
React Fiber is a set of internal algorithms for rendering graphics used by the JavaScript library React

28	What is the main goal of React Fiber?
Its main goal is to enable incremental rendering of the virtual DOM

29	What are controlled components? 
its current value through props and notifies changes through callbacks like onChange

30	What are uncontrolled components?
An Uncontrolled Component is one that stores and maintains its own state internally. A ref is used to find its current value when you need it.